I used to think the worst thing in life
was to end up all alone it's not the
worst thing in life is to end up with
people that make you feel all alone
Robin Williams codependency is a
potentially destructive stay to be in at
its core it means that you cannot be
alone and a consequence of this is an
ongoing clinging to other people no
matter how bad they treat you but it's
an illusion to think that we need
someone else to make us feel complete we
don't when we let our contentment depend
on external things we have given our
power away
[Music]
as humans we aren't Islands we need at
least some form of social interaction to
reproduce and in many cases to survive
but it's not necessary to have a
relationship or a large social circle to
be content in many ways social
interaction can be harmful
aside from bullying manipulation and
exploitation by so-called toxic
individuals being part of a group with a
certain ideology can be detrimental to
your identity as an individual you'll
sacrifice your authenticity just to be
part of something the question is why do
we do this one of our greatest fears
seems to be the fear of ending up alone
that's why we stay friends with people
that don't treat as well or stay in
relationships tainted by domestic abuse
cheating lying and other destructive
behaviors people can be very abusive and
nonetheless we feel a need to be liked
by those that aren't good for us we can
have hundreds of friends and feel
terribly alone so we try to find more
friends become more outgoing do our very
best to impress our environment hoping
that social acceptance eventually leads
to the fulfillment we're looking for we
can have thousands of followers on
Instagram and as many like some the
things we post we try to find that
perfect relationship hoping that this
person makes us feel complete
which means asking our partners the
impossible but at the end of the day we
lay in our beds awake asking ourselves
why we feel so unfulfilled well the
reason is twofold
firstly it's because what we are looking
for is already within us and because of
our pursuit to find it we cannot see it
secondly our ongoing pursuits are
wearing us out and the constant
people-pleasing obstructs the
development of our authentic selves
contentment is not to be achieved
outside it's achieved within we spend a
lifetime trying to extract from the
world only to conclude that we still
feel empty no amount of money
friends or material possessions will do
the job if our contentment isn't already
internalized paradoxically this
contentment only reveals itself one
we stopped looking for it it appears
spontaneously when we are completely
immersed in the present moment consumed
by what is without a need for anything
to change without straining ourselves to
be anywhere but in the here and now it's
effortless and conformable to the flow
of life so when we catch ourselves in
the experience of complete contentment
we might want to ask ourselves if
external validation is truly necessary
to experience it or that our ongoing
pursuit for quote unquote likes is
actually counterproductive
we're empty because we want to be filled
but by embracing our emptiness we
eradicate this need to be filled and
therefore become full if you're alone
right now I would say embrace it realize
that you don't need other people to feel
content in fact their presence may even
prevent you from manifesting what you
really are there's no doubt in my mind
that socializing can lead to a lot of
joy and that there's much happiness in
sharing helping connecting supporting
but there's a difference between
dependence on social interaction for the
sake of one's search for completeness
and voluntary engagement with other
people without needing them to feel
complete you are enough
thank you for watching
[Music]
you